# Lecture 1: Documentation for Evolution

## OSCAR
- Developed by McMaster dept. of family medicine
- Released into open source in 2001
- Many extentions
- Last major release was in 2012

Demo: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DGqDUcCNww0

Documentation at http://oscarmanual.org/

## Is documentation necessary for maintenance?
It is important but...

Working software is more important than comprehensive documentation.

Documentation is valuable however so that many people can work on a project, rather than just some people having all the information in their heads

## Which documentation is best?
In one survey, it was found that the most important documentation artifacts, to help understanding a system, are: the source code (with comments), a data model (logical, physical or class diagram), and specification of the requirements.

Another study found that UML documentation saves time, but when accounting for the change of those UML documents, time savings are insignificant. It did find however, that UML documentation leads to better quality/ more correct changes.

## Ontology (Description of the concepts and relationships that can exist in different areas)
### System sub-ontology
Competency questions:

- What are the software artifacts of a system?
- How do they relate to eachother?
- Which software and hardware resources are used by a system?
- What type of human resources interact with the system?

### Skills in Comp Sci sub-ontology
- What kind of CASE does the maintainer have experience with?
- What kind of procedures do they know?
- What programming and modeling languages do they know?

### Maintenance process sub-ontology
- What are the types of modification requests?
- Who can submit them?
- What are their possible sources?
- What are the activities performed during maintenance?
- What does one need to perform them?
- Who performs them?
- What do they produce?

### Organizational structure sub-ontology
Decomposed units and functions

### Application domain sub-ontology
- What are the concepts relevant in the application domain?
- How do these concepts relate?

## Conclusion
- Does software evolution require documentation?
  - SE definitely requires knowledge
  - Documentation carries knowledge over space and time
  - Documentation may be outdated or incomplete though
- Is the documentation required for legacy system evolution the same as for the development of a new system?
  - No
  - It requires more documentation as it is older
  - It requires less ie. you need to know only the important part (???)
- Are the skills required by a software maintainer different from those required by a developer?
  - Yes, when it comes to reengineering
  - No, since small reengineering should be part of ay modern software development process
- Are there tools/methods that can help generate documentation?
  - Yes, many (will be discussed later in the course)
  - However, the documentation will always involve manual work as well.
