# DevOps
DevOps is a culture, movement or practice that emphasizes the collaboration and communication of both software developers and other information technology proffesionals while automating the process of software delivery and infrastructure changes. Aims at establishing a culture where building, testing, and releasing software can happen rapidly, frequently and reliably.

## Blame Game - Dev vs. Ops
Blame passes around between teams, not working together well.

Want to get to a point where development and operations are integrated to a high degree so releases can be small and frequent.

Misalignment of goals leads to conflict
ex.
- Testers, QA and Dev want change
- Sysadmins, network technicias and DBAs want stability

example from OSCAR:
- Test server runs MySQL on myISAM
- Production server runs MySQL on InnoDB

Teams should have the same goals!

## Patterns that can help with devOps
### Branch by Abstraction
1. Create an abstraction over the part of the system that you need to change
2. Refactor the rest of the sytem to use the abstraction layer.
3. Continue coding; the abstraction layer delegates to the old or new code, as required.
4. Remove the old implementation
5. Iterate steps 3 and 4. ship your system in the meantime.
6. Once the old implementation has been completely replaced, remove the abstraction layer.

### Feature Toggles
Rather than shipping N versions with different features, ship the software with a configuration file where you can toggle features on and off.
You can always ship the complete code then, but with different configurations switched on or off. During peak loads, you can degrade gracefully by switching off features.

### Dark Launching
- Deploy new features unofficialy with a subset of users
- Find/fix errors
- Toggle off if problematic

### Blue/Green Deployment
- Maintain 2 production environments
- This gives ability to switch between two production environments
- One of them is active at any given time
- Switch between them once new release has been deployed
- Switch back in case of problems
- Otherwise, use inactivated envrionment for installing next release

## Metrics
Measure aspects of quality
- Internal vs external
  - internal: software under the hood (ex. codebase complexity too high, depth of inheritance hierarchy)
  - external: what the user sees (ex. usability)

Time metric (how long does it take to fix and issue?)
Time to detect (how long does it take to detect an error?)
Cycle time (time to complete one cycle from change request, over development to deployment)

## Infrastructure as Code
- Code that is not production code, ex.
  - build scripts
  - test script
  - deployment scripts
  - config script
  - etc.

## Behavior Driven Development
- We expect software to behave in a certain way
- Testing frameworks can be used to test behavior (such as cucumber)
- Ex.
  - Given some precondition
  - And some other precondition
  - When some action by the user
  - And another action
  - Then some testable outcome is achieved

ex. written in Gherkin
- __Feature__: Calculator addition
- __Scenario:__ Add 2 numbers
  - __Given__ i have entered 50 into the calculator
  - __And__ i have entered 70 into the calculator
  - __When__ I press add
  - __Then__ the result 120 should be displayed on the screen

The above scenario requires a test framework to function (ex. cucumber). It is the more user friendly/human readable language for testing. We then must write the cucumber test case to match the gherkin steps.

## Selenium webdriver
Selenium is used to automate web interaction

- Can be used alongside the gherkin/cucumber test cases to drive the actual testing
- Provides an api for accessing and testing a webpage
- Used to test user interaction end to end behavior tests
- Accesses elements from DOM tree and can be programmed to interact with different elements on the page.
- Can use Selenium Grid for concurrency testing

## Other notes
- The way cucumber is used to automate acceptance tests depends on the implementation language (ie. Java, Closure, Ruby, C++, etc.)
- For example, you can use lambda expressions with Java 8
