## Build lifecycle of complex software may be very complex

- Libraries
- Compile dependencies
- Generated source code
- Static analysis (looking at code, trying to assert that restrictions are met)
- Unit test
- Integration tests
- Packaging
- deployment

All this stuff is part of the lifecycle and there is a lot room for error when doing it manually so we want to automate the build process. There are many build tools available:

- GCC source code is compiled multiple times with different compilers in the build process for the executable program

- PERL build process is very complex

- Make is a build tool that automatically builds executable programs from many dependencies.

- Ant:
  - Early build tool for java.
  - It is similar to make, but written in XML-like syntax. 
  - Ant can be used with Ivy for managing external libraries and bundling them into your build. 
  - lightweight version of Maven. Ant is similar to Make, and is very flexible.

- Maven:
  - Complete build framework for java.
  - Was developed to improve upon problems that developers had with Ant.
  - Maven uses XML syntax as well, but the structure is different. 
  - Most important addition is that it allows us to download dependencies over a network.
  - Maven Lifecycles:
    - Validate: 
    - Compile
    - Test: Test compiled source code
    - Package: Package the compiled source code into distributed format.
    - Integration test: Deploy the packaged source code into an environment where integration tests can be run.
    - Verify
    - Install
    - Deploy
    - Clean
    - Site: Generate documentation for the project.
  - These are common in maven build lifecycle. It is a heavy and comprehensive tools.

- Convention over specification
  - Archetype structures
  - Lifecycles
  - Plugins
  - Multi-project management

- Gradle
  - Gradle combines good parts of Ant and Maven. Provides Ant's flexibility, and Maven's life cycle and ease of use.
  - Released in 2012 (recent).
  - Not XML based (better than maven).
  - Uses an internal DSL (Domain specific language) based on groovy (Scripting language that runs on JVM). Its DSL makes the build code much shorter.
  - Files use declerative constructs but can also do anything
  - Works with any project structure
  - Features:
    - Built-in GUI
    - Continuous build
    - Model-based rules
    - Gradle daemon, very quick to run
 
## Which version of the build-tool to install?

- The Gradle Wrapper eliminates work
- Gradlew is a script that downloads the right version of Gradle and executes it
- All projects should use the wrapper instead of gradle directly

## Key Points
- Complex software has complex build/lifecycles
- Automation is key to reliably managing these
- Build processes are software too
