# Intro

## Software Evolution
Software evolution is a term used to refer to the process of developing software initially, then repeatedly updating it for various reasons.

## Why does Software have to evolve?
Observing that most software is subject to change in the course of its existence, Lehman set out to determine laws that these changes will typically obey, or must obey in order for the software to survive.
Lehman's classification of software:
- S-program: Written according to exact specification of what the program can do
- P-program: Written to implement certain procedures that completely determine what the program can do (example is a program to play chess)
- E-program: Written to perform some real-world activity; how it should behave is strongly linked to the environment in which it runs, and such a program needs to adapt to varying requirements and circumstances in that environment.

## Lehman's Laws of Software Evolution
The following laws apply only to E-type programs:

1. Continuing Change
  - An E-type system *must be continually adapted* or it becomes progressively less satisfactory
2. Increasing Complexity
  - As an E-type system evolves, it's *complexity increases* unless work is done to maintain or reduce it
3. Self Regulation
  - E-type system evolution processes are self-regulating with the distribution of product and process measures close to normal. (An E-type system's growth inevitably slows as it grows older.. ie. follows a normal distribution, slow at start and end compared to middle.)
4. Conservation of Organisational Stability
  - The average global activity rate in an evolving E-type system is invariant over the product's lifetime.
5. Continuing Growth
  - The functional content of an E-type system must be *continually increased* to maintain user satisfaction over its lifetime
6. Declining Quality
  - The quality of the system will appear to be *declining* unless it is rigorously maintained and adapted to operational environment changes.
7. Feedback System
  - Evolution processes constitute multi-level, multi-leep, multi-agent feedback systems and must be treated as such to achieve significant improvement over any reasonable base. (Software evolution is a complex process where feedback will be collected from sources (users, managers, runtime environment, etc.) to make improvements during the evolution of the system.)

## Software Maintenance
- Corrective: Performed after delivery to correct problems.
- Adaptive: Performed after delivery to keep software product usable in changing environment.
- Perfective: Improve performance or maintainability (refactoring).
- Preventive: Correct faults in the software before the become failures.

## Legacy Software
A legacy system is an old method, technology, computer system, or application program. Often implies that the system is out of date or in need of replacement.

We can reengineer them to create new software systems.
