# Continuous Integration

Wouldn't it be nice to do more than just maintain source code on the central server?

## What is continuous integration?

It is a software development practice where members of a team integrate their work frequently, usually each person integrates at least daily, leading to multiple integrations per day.

Each integration is verified by an automated build (includings tests) to detect integration errors as quickly as possible.

__Pre-requisites__:

- Source code must be checked into Source Control
- Must have an automated build that compiles and tests
- Must have a dedicated integration machine

Jenkins is a popular open source CI tool ([demo](https://demo.oscarmcmaster.org:11042/job/oscarTrunkGerrit/))

We can use Jenkins with some source control management system and code review (ie. git with github, gerrit, etc.)

## Gerrit

Gerrit is a code review system that works with git.

__Why code review?__

- Ensure that each change is linked to intent (commits should be per item along with informative message)
- Improve code
- Share knowledge

Each time you commit a change to gerrit, gerrit assigns a unique change id (ie. change 123). You can patch your change by submitting different patch sets (ie. you can change old commits).

## Gerrit Workflow

- Create a new change
- Push for review
    - Build & Test (+score)
        - CI tools give a +1 for successful build and tests passing
    - Code review (+score)
        - Another reviewer must +2 for a total of +3 for the code to be merged into the repository
- Based on score, either accept or decline the new change
    - Scores
      - -2 Veto dont merge
      - -1 needs fixing
      - +1 no problems found but would like someone else to approve
      - +2 approved

```
git clone ssh://user@gerrit.seng.uvic.ca:29418/seng371/oscar
```
work
```
git push origin HEAD:refs/for/master
```

### Review Etiquette

- Discuss
- Review each file: Spend the time doing a deep review of all files in order to understand it.
- Negative review has to be seen in a possitive way. Comments not meant to blame other, but help.
- Always answer comments
- Use code in comments if you need to describe something
- Reviews take time, the bigger the change, the longer it will take to review
- Split big changes into topics to help understand the idea behind them.

__Amending a Change__ (improving a change that go a negative review)

- Start with a fresh checkout of the change.

```
git fetch ssh://jdoe@myhost.mydomain.com:29418/hello-project refs/changes/02/2/1 && git checkout FETCH_HEAD

echo "Change amended" >> alpha-private-review.txt

push origin HEAD:refs/for/master
```

### How to merge concurrent changes on Submit

__Fast forward only__

- Change set must be a superset of target branch (branch must be rebased with other branch before submitting)

```
git checkout local-topic-branch

git rebase -i origin/master

git push gerrit HEAD:refs/for/master

git rebase -i upstream/master

git push origin HEAD:refs/for/master
```

__Rebase if necessary__

- Gerrit does the rebase automatically if possible

__Merge if necessary/always merge__

- Branches are merge on submission

__Cherry pick__

- Apply the changes introduced by some existing commits
- Selective merging of commits
