# Lecture 2: What is an Architecture?

##Architecture Recovery
- The notion of reverse engineering has changed
  - From recovering complete to partial documentation
  - Term is also used in the context of unauthorized theft of intellectual property
- Other terms like "Program Understanding" and "Architecture Recovery" are also commonly used.
- Architecture recovery involves detective work from diverse information sources
  - Source code
  - Object code
  - Running program
  - Documentation
  - Version history
  - Human experts that have worked on the project

##What is Software Architecture?
The set of structures needed to reason about the system, which comprise software elements, relations among them, and properties of both.

Software systems are composed of many structures, and no single structure holds claim to being *the* architecture

Three *Categories* of Structures:

1. Static structures: Partitions, modules
  - Individual source code files
2. Dynamic structures: Component & connections, interactions, behavior, processes
  - Communication between software modules and components at runtime
3. Allocation structures: mapping SW artifacts to implementation resources
  - How system interacts with external systems in runtime environments (does it write to files? Access API or database?)

Only structures that help in understanding the software are relevant for its architecture

Architecture is an abstraction

Related architectures:
- System architecture
  - Software, hardware, network, humans
- Enterprise architecture
  - Organization wide processes, information flow..

## Architectural Structures and Views
A view is a representation of a set of architectural elements. It consists of a representation of a set of elements and relations among them. Some representation of the system.

A structure is the set of elements themselves, as they exist in the software or hardware.

Three *types* of Structures (these fall into the categories above):
- Module structures
  - Here the elements are modules, which are units of implementation. Modules represent a code-based way of considering the system. They are assigned areas of functional responsibility. There is less emphasis on how the resulting software manifests itself at runtime.
- Component-and-connector structures
  - Here the elements are runtime components (principal units of computation) and connectors (communication vehicles among components).
- Allocation structures
  - Show relationship between the software elements and the elements in one or more external enviroments in which the software is created and executed.


## Example questions:
### Module structures
- What is the primary functional responsibility assigned to each module?
- What other software elements is a module allowed to use?
- What other software does it actually use and depend on?
- What modules are related to other modules by generalization or specialization relationships?

###Component and connector structures
- What are the major executing components and how do they interact at runtime?
- What are the major shared data stores?
- Which parts of the system are replicated?
- How does data progress through the system?
- What parts of the system can run in parallel?
- Can the system's structure change as it executes?

###Allocation structures
- What processor does each software element execute on?
- in what directories or files is each element stored during development, testing, and system building?
- What is the assignment of each software element to development teams?

##Architecture styles
An architectural style defines: a family of systems in terms of a pattern of structural organization

A vocabulary of components and connectors, with constraints on how they can be combined

Some architecture style are:
- Three-tier
- Multilayered architecture
- Hierarchical pattern
- Model-View-Controller
- Microkernel
- Blackboard pattern
- Sensor-controller-actuator

##Conclusion
- If someone asks you "Can you show me the architecture of the software?, you say: ...
- Architecture vs. Architecture views
- Three categories: Module, Comonent and connector, Allocation
- Is this all maintainers need?
  - It's pretty comprehensive, but a few architecture views have been developed specifically for maintainers.
