# Configuration Management

Source control is the bedrock of software development. Without some sort of version control system in place, you can't reasonably call yourself a software engineer.

Todays goal:
- Appreciate the role of software configuration management (aka version and source control)
- Explore related tools and concepts

## Why do we need configuration management?
- To keep track of software changes over time and be able to reproduce older versions
- To control how software changes, and make sure needed changes have been made and no improper changes have been made.
- To coordinate concurrent work in teams

## Manual Retrace/Versioning
- Keeping backup folders
- Tarballs
- Comment out large chunks of code
- Write down notes (readme, help, code comment blocks)
- Save in some file share

With source control management, we can always revert to an old commit if necessary.

## Vocab
- __Repository__ This is the central copy of the source code with all history and archive information
- __Working copy__ What Jane and Joe use to actually work on, each has their own one.
- __Checkout__ The process of fetching the repository content you need to your machine
- __Commit__ Write changes to the repository
- __Update__ Get the latest files from the repository

## Subversion
__Committing__
- Everyone uses the same repository
- Subversion only stores diffs (snapshots of differences)

example:
```
svn add list.txt.
svn ci list.txt -m "Changed the list"
```
__Branching__

Copy master to a new branch and work on that branch
```
svn copy http://path/to/trunk http://path/to/branch
```

__Merging__

Merge changes from the branch back into the main trunk
```
svn merge -r5:6 http://path/to/branch
```

__Conflicts__

If changes are made in the same place (ex. checkin conflicting changes) a "conflict" is raised.

__Tagging__

Useful for marking major baselines
```
svn copy http://path/to/revision http://path/to/tag
```

## Distributed Source Control Management
- Every developer has their own complete repo
- New terms: push & pull

- Advantages:
    - Everyone has their own repo
        - You can make changes and roll back all on your own machine.
    - It works offline
        - You only need to be online to push changes. Otherwise you can happily work on your local machine, checking in and undoing, no matter if the serve is down or you're on an airplane
    - It's fast
        - Diffs, commits and reverts are done locally.
    - It handles changes well
        - Built around sharing changes, every change has a log and is easy to track.
    - Branching and mergin are easy
    - Less management
        - There is "always running" software to install.
        - They do not require you to add users, all you need is a URL to pull from

- Disadvantages
    - There is not really a "latest version"
        - Since there is no central version, you don't really know whether to see Sue, Joe or Eve for the latest version
    - There aren't really revision numbers
        - Every repo has it's own revision numbers depending on the changes.

## Common Branching Patterns
- One branch per commit
    - Each architectural component is a new, independent branch. Components are merged into the main branch as they are completed.
- Branch per release
    - Every release is a new branch,  and killed off if the release is no longer supported.
- Branch per promotion
    - Every tier is a branch
    - As changes are completed and tested, they pass the quality gate and are promoted as merges into successive tiers.
- Branch per task
    - Every task is a new, independent branch. Tasks are merged into main as they are completed.
- Branch per technology
    - Each tech platform is a permanent branch. Common parts of the codebase are merged

Single trunk = Maximum productivity, maximum risk
Branching everything = Minimum productivity, minimum risk

## Some antipatterns:

- __Merge paranoia__: never want to merge due to fear of consequences
- __Merge mania__: too much merging
- __Big bang merge__: merging has been defered til the end of development and attempt to merge all at once
- __Wrong way merge__: A software asset is merged with a previous version
- __Branch mania__: too many branches for no apparent reason
- __Cascading branches__: Branches are never merged back to the main dev line
- __Mysterious branches__: Nobody can tell you what the branches are for
- __Temporary branches__: The purpose of a branch keeps changing
- __Volatile branches__: Unstable branch is shared by other branches or merged into another branch
- __Development freeze__: All dev is stopped during branch and merging
- __Berlin wall__: Branches are used to divide team members, rather than divide work.
